So now, more on the data fetching.
So, I said, I think there was a question
earlier if we were gonna get to
handling errors, or things like that.
Well, yes, so
we got some more special pages.
I know we talked about the head component,
we talked about layouts,
I mentioned templates, there's a few more.
I think there's like three or four more.
There's really only two
I wanna talk about, and
one of them is gonna be the loading page,
which I think is super powerful.
So, the loading page is
exactly what it sounds like,
it's a page that will basically show
some type of loading indicator,
while a server component is
trying to fetch its data.
And if you think about the nested nature
of how we can do server components,
I don't know, you might have something
on a page that's got tile zone and
each one of those tiles
is a server component.
And if they're loading individually,
you can show a different loading UI for
each one of those things individually,
just by making another page,
which is pretty helpful.
And we get this for free just by
tapping into some of the syntax.
So, let's give it a shot, so let me
over exaggerate, loading right quick.
So, this is what I'll do.
I'll actually make this
function right here.
Well actually what I'll do,
I'll just go up here, and
I'll make something called wait,
or call it delay.
Something like that, and
then delay returns a new promise.
That takes a callback, takes a resolve.
And it takes a setTimeout.
It's gonna pass something there,
and then it'll take a time.
Cool, so now we can wait, and
then I'll just say delay.
We'll just delay you for, let's just
over exaggerate this, five seconds.
And delay for five seconds, and
then we'll just return some object here,
doesn't matter.
Something like that, okay?
So we're gonna delay this five seconds.
While this is waiting,
let's see what happens,
we'll just do this,
we'll say post slug, and
we'll just see how long it takes to
get back, right, so let's go here.
You see it's still spinning,
it's still spinning, still spinning.
And boom, there it went, right,
it took five seconds for
that to come back because
we delayed it for a while.
You can see, right, I just reloaded it,
sort of seeing there it is, and
then it came back.
It's just the same data, so
that's why it's showing that.
So what we wanna do, instead of having
nothing to show while it's loading,
it's cached now because I'm local,
we can do a loading page instead.
So I can come here, and
I can say loading.tsx.
And I can put whatever I want here,
so I can say exports default,
function, blog, or post loading,
something like that.
And I could return whatever I want.
This is where you would
show like a skeleton, or
not a Halloween skeleton, but a-
>> [LAUGH]
>> You guys know what I'm talking about,
like the loading skeletons?
>> Yeah, a shimmer.
>> Shimmer,
that's another word for it, yeah.
Yeah, I should probably start calling it
shimmer, because when I say skeleton,
people are like,
what are you talking about?
I'm talking about, yeah, let me just
see if I can find a good example of it,
like that thing, and
it kind of does this thing, yeah, shimmer,
shimmer is a better word.
So, yeah,
this is where he would show that, right,
so I'm just gonna say loading though,
right?
So we'll just do loading like that, and
let's see if it works here, there we go.
So it's loading, it's loading, and
then boom it came back, right?
So this is a great place but notice,
this didn't move this UI bit, all right?
So, it's independent, and
we have many of these on the page,
all loading individually,
doing whatever they want, and
everything else is still
there just waiting.
So you don't have to wait for your whole
app to load up, I never wanna go to an app
and see the whole screen just be
a loading thing in the middle again,
there's no reason to do that anymore.
In fact,
you didn't have to do that before,
it was just a lot of work to set up.
It was just like, you gotta move
this API call to this thing and
it was just a lot of work,
people didn't do it.
It wasn't that it wasn't possible,
it was just that most of the time we
fetch our data at the page level,
the container level, the controller level,
and never on the leaf level.
But now we are fetching on a leaf level,
and
they're completely
independent of themselves.
You can almost think of it as like
the movement of like, all right,
we're gonna put everything
in one component.
But then we were like, no,
let's make smaller UI components, and
have scoped CSS.
And we're gonna have our tests and
everything over here just for
this component.
Now we're saying, now we're gonna put the
data fetching in that component as well.
So everything goes in that component, and
you can think of a component as its
own little isolated app almost.
So that's kind of where we are with that.
So, that's the loading one,
it's pretty cool.
Really what all this is doing,
is using something called suspense, right?
If you never heard of suspense in React,
it basically is like,
it's a way that you can stream
a component to the front end.
And while it's streaming,
or while it's loading,
you can show a loading fallback
until it's ready, basically.
It's like the cool if you did a set state,
or sorry,
like a use state hook,
that says it's loading.
And then,
soon as you fire off the event you say,
is loading true, that re renders and
shows a loading thing.
And then when it comes back you say,
is loading false?
And then it shows the data that came back,
it's the equivalent of doing all of that.
Just creating a wall file,
for free, right?
So, that's how that works.
So other examples if you wanted to bring
in a server component to another server
component, but you want it to wait on it,
and you want it to load instead, right?
So for instance, if I made a server
component over here, I know I have one,
yeah, header link.
So if I had header link, actually I'll
just make all these server components,
it's so much easier.
So, and then, inside of page,
if header was going to
take a long time to show,
I could put a suspense around this.
So, it's not a blank until it shows up,
right?
So for instance, I can go to header.
I can say, let me get that,
where's that thing at?
This thing, come here, get over here.
I'm gonna just move this up,
I'm going to make a new folder here.
You can make whatever folders
you want on the root by the way.
I always like to make one called lib or
something like that for
all my non component library things.
Now let's call this delay.
Put that in there and export it.
Okay, cool, so we got that, and then
what I can do, is I can go into header,
and I can say, I don't know, let's just
be weird here, and just say await.
Wait delay for
another five seconds like that.
And then inside of the page
in which I am using this,
which I believe is the index page,
you can see right now,
don't worry about this type script error.
This is a known error,
there's a specific comment you can put
in here to tell typescript, chill out.
I know it returns a promise, I get it.
But, yeah, in the meantime,
we can do what's called a suspense.
So I'm gonna say suspense like this,
like that, and
then you can say fall back, and you can
put some loading component in here.
So, Don't have one,
I guess I could just make one right quick.
Or I'll just take this one.
Loading.
Let's put this one in here, export that.
Loader, go back into the page, and
I can say this is going to be loader.
Right, so, and you can make the loader
a client component, actually,
which is totally fine.
I think maybe it even needs to, let's see.
We're gonna find out,
I think it needs to be one.
So we'll do that, and I'll just go to
home, and you can see it's loading,
showing the loader for the header,
and then when it's done,
the header comes back, right?
And I did that manually using
the suspense right here,
which is exactly what the layout
file does for you automatically.
And that only works for pages in
the pages directory, but in this case,
I had a component that was not in the
pages directory that I imported myself.
So I had to manually use suspense
to set up a loading state for it,
but you get it for free, if you use
the loading page in the app directory.
I set page directory earlier,
I meant app directory, sorry,
I'm still getting used
to saying app directory.
Cool, any questions on this?
No, if you've never seen suspense before,
this is what it looks like.
It's not as scary as it sounds, I mean,
it's actually really quite cool,
you should go read about it.
But, yeah, that's all it's doing is just
show this thing until this thing is ready,
cuz it's an async loading component,
right?
Before server component and stuff,
suspense was mainly used for
dynamically imported component, right?
Using dynamic imports for
route code splitting, route splitting,
stuff like that, and
you would suspense that.
But now we're doing it for
data fetching purposes on the server.
So, same result, well,
different result ultimately but
still using suspense to solve a common
problem of something not here yet.
And showing a loader until it gets here.
Cool, yeah.
>> So the naming convention
is such that everything is,
all the files are lower case,
except for the component files?
>> That's just my convention,
yeah, I'm kind of weird.
I guess I was using React back in the day
where we used capital letters for
our components, but I don't know,
I feel like a lot of folks these days
just use lowercase for everything.
And maybe I should switch to that,
because you actually have to keep
them lowercase in the app directory.
But I've always just been used to keeping
them uppercase in the components.
For some reason I've just done
that because when I see that,
I know that that's a component and
not a page.
Whereas when I see these, I know that
these are, I mean, it literally says page,
but before you have to use the word page,
you just didn't know, for
instance down in the pages directory
like hello TS, that's a page,
because you don't have to use
page JS in the pages directory.
But I know it's a page
because it's also lowercase.
Whereas, if it was uppercase, and
not in this folder, then I would know, so,
that's mostly just me.
And I also think it's out of
habit of like, sometimes,
a while ago, people didn't use
the actual JSX or TSX extension,
they just use .js, or .ts,
and that still works.
You don't actually have to
change it to TSX or JSX.
But then it's like, well what's
the difference between a regular TS
file that didn't have JavaScript in it and
a TS file that had JSX in it?
So sometimes they will capitalize
the letter of the file, so,
if you look at that's a component.
And the other one's just
a regular JavaScript file,
versus just using the different
extensions cuz they were lazy.
So, yeah, it's history to it, but it's
just my thing, it's just what I've done.
I'm not saying it's right or wrong.